VISIT The following video shows an example of determining which of the above sets of numbers a particular number is in.  See video 2DBH at www.everythingmaths.co.za NOTE Not all numbers are real numbers. The square root of a negative number is called a non-real or imaginary number. For example/1,/28 and/5 are all non-real numbers. Rational and irrational numbers EMA4 DEFINITION Rational number A rational number Q is any number which can be written as e b where a and b are integers and b 4 0. The following numbers are all rational numbers 10.21.-1 10.-3 1 77-3 20 6 We see that all numerators and all denominators are integers. This means that all integers are rational numbers, because they can be written with a denominator of 1. DEFINITION Irrational numbers Irrational numbers Q are numbers that cannot be written as a fraction with the numerator and denominator as integers. Examples of irrational numbers Sy V2; V3; V4; 7;+ These are not rational numbers, because either the numerator or the denominator is not an integer. Decimal numbers EMA5 All integers and fractions with integer numerators and non-zero integer denominators are rational numbers. Remember that when the denominator of a fraction is zero then the fraction is undefined. You can write any rational number as a decimal number but not all decimal numbers are rational numbers. These types of decimal numbers are rational numbers  Decimal numbers that end or terminate. For example, the fraction 4 can be written as 0,4.  Decimal numbers that have a repeating single digit. For example, the fraction+ can be written as 0,3 or 0,3. The dot and bar notations are equivalent and both represent recurring 3s, i.e. 0,3  0,3  0,333...  Decimal numbers that have a recurring pattern of multiple digits. For example, the fraction 2 can also be written as 0,18. The bar represents a recurring pattern of 1s and 8s, i.e. 0,18  0,181818.... NOTE You may see a full stop instead of a comma used to indicate a decimal number. So the number 0,4 can also be written as 0.4